# HotelApp
-Disclaimer:
A Matter Hotel mobile app is a project specifically designed for CSIS 4175-070 course at Douglas College for Fall 2018 semester and is not intended for sales of any sort. The material borrowed from the Internet including images, icons, descriptive text are not owned by any of the group members and are used only for educational purposes. Any code not written by authors of the application was taken from online open sources and all the links are put as references at the end of this document.
The idea, design and implementation, however, belong to the group and together are considered the property of the “A Matter App’s” developers.

-Description:
Our app is designed for customers who would like to book a room in the “A Matter” hotel, in Vancouver. It allows our users to browse and book rooms and activities throughout the city, as well as to order food and drinks from our breakfast, lunch and dinner menus. It also enables users to review and rate our services and their stay at our hotel and generate an up-to-date invoice so that they can keep track of their purchases while staying with us. Furthermore, it has administrative features, which allows the hotel managers to view, modify and delete users, products, activities and bookings, so that they can keep track of the hotel’s activities and make any corrections to the information held by the hotel without much effort.
Functionalities
	•	Sign Up/ Log In
Implemented with fragments. The sign-up fragment allows new users to register in the app by providing personal information such as email, password, first name, last name, and region. For already existing users, the log in fragment provides inputs for their credentials, which are their email address and password to access our app’s main features. Both use Firebase Authentication, Animation and Custom View, as well as different kinds of validation for email and password. For usability there are toast messages displays hints and any issues occurred during Sign Up/ Log In process.
	•	Room Booking
This feature allows users to book rooms. On the “rooms” activity, there are 3 threads which are used to create an image-changing animation every 2 seconds, as well as descriptions to every type of rooms available (Comfort, Kings, and Family Suites), which are placed in an “Expanded View”. Also, there are user inputs like a Date Picker for the date, “EditTexts” for the length of the booking (in days) and the number of guests which will be staying in the hotel. For each type of room, there is a corresponding “Book” button which triggers a Dynamic fragment on the top of the screen created to show the Booking Confirmation. Booking details are placed in Firebase under the “bookings”, which is structured based on the current user. There is also validation for the aforementioned inputs.
	•	Activities Reservation
Almost the same idea as Room Booking page but separated into two different activities (“Activities” and “Booking”). For each activity, there are pictures relating to its content which constantly change through threads, as described in the “Room Booking”. There are also a description and “Book” button. Once the user clicks the button, he/she is redirected to the Booking Page, where inputs for Quantity of people and Date Picker are placed. After the booking is made, the user is taken back to the “Activities” activity and a confirmation fragment is shown on the top of the screen. Booking details are placed in Firebase under the “activities” object, which is structured based on the current user. Also, validation for the input date is present.
	•	Room Service ordering
Developed in a similar way as the “Activities” activity, but for ordering food services. Our menu is divided in the following categories: Breakfast, Lunch and Dinner, and Dessert. When a user selects one of our categories, he/she is redirected  to the “room service booking” activity, where a dynamic table is implemented to enable our users to order products from that category easily. The content of this table is generated  “on the fly”, and it changes according to which category the user has chosen on the previous activity. This activity also stores data about each food item ordered to Firebase under the “service” object, which is structured based on the current user.
	•	Rank and Review
The “Rank and Review” activity allows users to write a review about our hotel services. This activity contains an “EditText” to get the content of the user’s review, as well as a rating bar and an animation based on a “CANVAS” object implemented as an “emoji”. The emoji’s “mood” changes from sad to happy as the rate increases. The review, along with the value of the rating bar are stored in Firebase  under the “review” object, , which is structured based on the current user. After the data is stored, a confirmation “Toast” is displayed.
	•	Invoice
The Invoice Page displays all the user’s purchases and bookings, along with prices for each item and an updated total. This was Implemented as a “ListView “with an “Adapter” which displays the date, service(name for what was purchased or booked), and the corresponding price of each transaction made by the current user. The data used to display this table is read from the “bookings”, “activities” and “orders” objects of our Firebase database based on the current user. The data is handled and placed on the appropriate fields. All information is properly formatted to fit the “ListView”. All information is up-to-date thanks to database event listeners.
	•	Admin Page
The Admin Page was designed to allow the hotel manager(s) to review the hotel’s records of customers, bookings, products and activities, as well as sales (by viewing which activities have been booked or which items have been sold). It also enables the manager(s) to make changes to user’s information if needed. This activity also provides tools for updating a user’s first name, last name, and the region. Additionally, it enables the manager(s) to delete users, along with his/her entire history with the hotel. Since the methods for reading and manipulating data are placed inside database event listeners, the data displayed changes automatically with no need to execute queries again.

-Additional Help:
anushadas110@gmail.com
